['The Artist is a 2011 French romantic comedy-drama in the style of a black-and-white silent film.'
 'The Artist was written, directed, and co-edited by Michel Hazanavicius, produced by Thomas Langmann and starred Jean Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo.'
 'The story takes place in Hollywood, between 1927 and 1932, and focuses on the relationship of an older silent film star and Bérénice Bejo as silent cinema falls out of fashion and is replaced by the "talkies".'
 'The Artist received highly positive reviews from critics and won many accolades.'
 'Jean Dujardin won the Best Actor Award at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, where The Artist premiered.'
 'The Artist was nominated for six Golden Globes, the most of any 2011 film, and won three: Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, Best Original Score, and Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for Jean Dujardin.'
 'In January 2012, The Artist was nominated for twelve BAFTAs, the most of any film from 2011, and won seven, including Best Film, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay for Michel Hazanavicius, and Best Actor for Jean Dujardin.'
 'The Artist was nominated for ten Academy Awards and won five, including Best Picture for Thomas Langmann, Best Director for Michel Hazanavicius, and Best Actor for Jean Dujardin, making Jean Dujardin the first French actor ever to win for Best Actor.'
 "The Artist was also the first French film to ever win Best Picture, and the first mainly silent film to win since 1927's Wings won at the 1st Academy Awards in 1929."
 "The Artist was also the first film presented in the 4:3 aspect ratio to win since 1953's From Here to Eternity."
 "Additionally, The Artist was the first black-and-white film to win since 1993's Schindler's List, though 1993's Schindler's List contained limited colour sequences; The Artist was the first 100% black-and-white film to win since 1960's The Apartment."
 'In France The Artist was nominated for ten César Awards, winning six, including Best Film, Best Director for Michel Hazanavicius and Best Actress for Bérénice Bejo.'
 'The Artist became the most awarded French film in history.'
 "In 1927, an older silent film star is posing for pictures outside the premiere of an older silent film star's latest hit film when Bérénice Bejo, accidentally bumps into an older silent film star."
 'an older silent film star reacts with humor to bumps and shows off with Peppy for the cameras.'
 'The next day, Bérénice Bejo finds Bérénice Bejo on the front page of Variety with the headline "Who\'s That Girl?"'
 "Later, Bérénice Bejo auditions as a dancer and is spotted by Valentin, who insists that Bérénice Bejo have a part in Kinograph Studios' next production, despite objections from the studio boss, Al Zimmer."
 'While performing a scene in which they dance together, they show great chemistry, despite Bérénice Bejo being merely an extra.'
 "With a little guidance from an older silent film star (an older silent film star draws a beauty spot on Bérénice Bejo, which will eventually be Bérénice Bejo's trademark, after finding Bérénice Bejo in an older silent film star's dressing room), Bérénice Bejo slowly rises through the industry, earning more prominent starring roles."
 "Two years later, the studio boss, Al Zimmer announces the end of production of silent films at Kinograph Studios', but an older silent film star is dismissive, insisting that sound is just a fad."
 "In a dream, an older silent film star begins hearing sounds from an older silent film star's environment (as does the audience), but cannot speak an older silent film star, then wakes up in a sweat."
 "an older silent film star decides to produce and direct an older silent film star's own silent film, financing his own silent film an older silent film star."
 "his own silent film opens on the same day as Bérénice Bejo's new sound film as well as the 1929 Stock Market Crash."
 "Now an older silent film star's only chance of avoiding bankruptcy is for his own silent film to be a hit."
 "Unfortunately audiences flock to Peppy's new sound film instead and an older silent film star is ruined."
 "an older silent film star's wife, Doris, kicks an older silent film star out, and an older silent film star moves into an apartment with an older silent film star's valet/chauffeur, Clifton, and an older silent film star's dog."
 'Bérénice Bejo goes on to become a major Hollywood star.'
 "Later, an older silent film star is forced to auction off all of an older silent film star's personal effects, and after realizing an older silent film star has not paid his valet/chauffeur, Clifton in over a year, gives his valet/chauffeur, Clifton the car and fires his valet/chauffeur, Clifton, telling his valet/chauffeur, Clifton to get another job."
 "Depressed and drunk, an older silent film star angrily sets a match to an older silent film star's private collection of an older silent film star's earlier films."
 'As the nitrate film quickly blazes out of control an older silent film star is overwhelmed by the smoke and passes out inside the burning house, still clutching a single film canister.'
 'However, his dog attracts the help of a nearby policeman, and after being rescued an older silent film star is hospitalized for injuries suffered in the fire.'
 'Bérénice Bejo visits the hospital and discovers that his own silent film a nearby policeman is the one with they dancing together.'
 "Bérénice Bejo asks for an older silent film star to be moved to Bérénice Bejo's house to recuperate."
 'an older silent film star awakens in a bed at her house, to find that his valet/chauffeur, Clifton is now working for Bérénice Bejo.'
 "an older silent film star seems to remain dismissive of Bérénice Bejo having taken an older silent film star in, prompting his valet/chauffeur, Clifton to sternly remind an older silent film star of an older silent film star's changing luck."
 "Bérénice Bejo insists to the studio boss, Al Zimmer that an older silent film star co-star in Bérénice Bejo's next film, threatening to quit Kinograph if the studio boss, Al Zimmer does not agree to Bérénice Bejo's terms."
 "After an older silent film star learns to an older silent film star's dismay that it had been Bérénice Bejo who had purchased all an older silent film star's auctioned effects, an older silent film star returns in despair to an older silent film star's burnt-out apartment."
 'Bérénice Bejo arrives, panicked, and finds that an older silent film star is about to attempt suicide with a handgun.'
 'Bérénice Bejo tells an older silent film star Bérénice Bejo only wanted to help an older silent film star.'
 "they embrace and an older silent film star tells Bérénice Bejo it's no use; no one wants to hear an older silent film star speak."
 "Remembering an older silent film star's superb dancing ability, Bérénice Bejo persuades the studio boss, Al Zimmer to let they make a musical together."
 "Now the audience hears sound for the second time, as his own silent film starts rolling for a dance scene with they and they's tap-dancing can be heard."
 'Once the choreography is complete, they are heard panting.'
 'the studio boss, Al Zimmer a musical calls out audibly, "Cut!"'
 'to which the studio boss, Al Zimmer adds: "Perfect.' 'Beautiful.'
 'Could an older silent film star give the studio boss, Al Zimmer one more?" an older silent film star, in an older silent film star\'s only audible line, replies "With pleasure!"'
 "revealing an older silent film star's French accent."
 'The camera then pulls back to the sounds of the film crew as the film crew prepare to shoot another take.'
 'Michel Hazanavicius had been fantasizing about making a silent film for many years, both because many filmmakers Michel Hazanavicius admires emerged in the silent era, and because of the image-driven nature of the silent era.'
 "According to Michel Hazanavicius Michel Hazanavicius's wish to make a silent film was at first not taken seriously, but after the financial success of Michel Hazanavicius's spy-film pastiches OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies and OSS 117: Lost in Rio, producers started to express interest."
 "The forming of his own silent film's narrative started with Michel Hazanavicius's desire to work again with actors Jean Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo, Michel Hazanavicius's wife, who had both starred in OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies."
 'Michel Hazanavicius chose the form of the melodrama, mostly because Michel Hazanavicius thought many of the films from the silent era which have aged best are melodramas.'
 'Michel Hazanavicius did extensive research about 1920s Hollywood, and studied silent films to find the right techniques to make The story comprehensible without having to use too many intertitles.'
 'The screenplay took four months to write.'
 "Chief among the influences shaping The screenplay's protagonist was Douglas Fairbanks."
 "The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ recent book Douglas Fairbanks by Jeffrey Vance, as well as The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ exhibition and screening events both in Los Angeles and New York City, afforded the screenplay’s protagonist and The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’'s first president some significant media attention."
 'Principal photography on The Artist began in November 2010, taking place over the course of thirty-five days, made in the 1.33:1 screen ratio commonly used in the silent era.'
 'Though presented in black-and-white, The Artist was shot in color by cinematographer Guillaume Schiffman.'
 'All the technical details, including lenses, lighting and camera moves, were calibrated to aesthetically match silent films of the silent era.'
 'To recreate the slightly sped-up look of 1920s silent films, The Artist was shot at a slightly lower frame rate of 22 fps as opposed to the standard 24 fps.'
 'Most of The Artist is silent, except for two brief scenes with sound as well as the non-diegetic soundtrack.'
 'Throughout the shoot, Michel Hazanavicius played music from classic Hollywood films while the actors performed.'
 'The Artist was produced by La Petite Reine and ARP Sélection for 13.47 million euro, including co-production support from Studio 37 and France 3 Cinéma, and pre-sales investment from Canal+ and CinéCinéma.'
 'The cast and the film crew included both French and American members.'
 'All the scenes were shot in Los Angeles, primarily in Hollywood, but also in downtown theaters, restaurants and houses, including the one in which Mary Pickford lived.'
 "Soundstage work was done at Red Studios, and the studio lot the studio lot itself doubled for part of the fictional Kinograph Studios lot, with Red Studios's Lillian Way entrance doubling as the Kinograph entrance in several sequences."
 "The iconic Bradbury Building in downtown L.A. provided the location for The Artist's distinctive staircase sequence."
 'The dance sequence that closes The Artist took seventeen takes, and required Jean Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo to spend five months studying tap dancing, with Jean Dujardin claiming that "in the first week The dance sequence that closes the film\'s fun, the fifth week The dance sequence that closes the film\'s a little boring, at the end'
 'The dance sequence that closes the film\'s thrilling".'
 'The Artist\'s music was largely composed by Ludovic Bource, but includes works by other composers such as Alberto Ginastera\'s "Estancia".'
 'The soundtrack was recorded in Belgium by the Brussels Philharmonic and was conducted by Ernst Van Tiel; the Brussels Jazz Orchestra also cooperated.'
 "recorded took place during six days in April 2011 at Flagey's Studio 4 in Brussels."
 'The Artist\'s climactic scene is set to Bernard Herrmann\'s "Scène d\'amour" from Bernard Herrmann\'s\'s score to Alfred Hitchcock\'s film Vertigo.'
 'In Alfred Hitchcock\'s film Vertigo, Bernard Herrmann\'s "Scène d\'amour" from his score to Alfred Hitchcock\'s film Vertigo similarly accompanies an extended scene without dialogue.'
 'Only one song (sung, with lyrics) is used in The soundtrack, "Pennies from Heaven", sung by Rose "Chi-Chi" Murphy (uncredited).'
 'Only one song (sung, with lyrics) was written in 1936 although The Artist is set between 1927 and 1932.'
 'The Artist premiered on 15 May 2011 in competition at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.'
 'The Artist was initially announced as an out of competition entry, but was moved to competition a week before the 2011 Cannes Film Festival opened.'
 'The French regular release was on 12 October 2011 through Warner Bros. France.'
 'The Weinstein Company bought the distribution rights for the United States and Australia and Entertainment Film Distributors bought the UK distribution.'
 'The Artist was initially given limited release in the United States on 23 November 2011.'
 "Following The Artist's wins at the 69th Golden Globe Awards, it was announced Warner Bros. would re-release The Artist in France in 362 theaters on 25 January 2012."
 'The Artist was also re-released in Belgium on 22 February 2012.'
 'The Artist grossed $44,671,682 in the United States, along with $88,761,174 in other territories for a worldwide total of $133,432,856.'
 "After The Artist's success at the 69th Golden Globe Awards, The Artist saw a moderate boost the following week on the box office in the United States."
 "The Artist appeared on the week's top 10 chart and got an increase of 34% while expanding The Artist's release from 966 theaters to 1,756."
 "The Artist received universal acclaim upon The Artist's release, with many critics praising Dujardin and Bejo's performances."
 'Review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes reports that 97% of critics have given The Artist a positive review based on 276 reviews, with an average rating of 8.8/10, making The Artist a "Certified fresh" on Review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes\'s rating system.'
 'At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, The Artist received an average score of 89, based on 41 reviews, which indicates "Universal acclaim".'
 'The reviewers at Spill.com gave The Artist The reviewers at Spill.com\'s highest rating, a "Better Than Sex!"'
 'Mark Adams of Screen Daily called The Artist "a real pleasure"; "propelled elegantly forward by delightful performances from Jean Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo The Artist is the most unlikely of feel-good movies."'
 'Mark Adams of Screen Daily added however: "The Artist does feel a little sluggish towards the end of the first third as the music is a little repetitive and the intertitles are infrequent, but Michel Hazanavicius manages to give The Artist a real sense of charm and warmth, and film fans will be competing to spot visual and musical references."'
 'Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian described how The Artist "had Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian on Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian\'s feet cheering throughout the final credits" and stated "Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian can\'t wait to see The Artist again".'
 'Geoffrey McNab at The Independent called The Artist "both a surefire crowdpleaser and a magnificent piece of film-making" in Geoffrey McNab at The Independent\'s 5 star review from the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.'
 'Rick Groen of The Globe and Mail assessed The Artist highly, noting The Artist "uses old technology to dazzling effect to illustrate the insistent conquest of a new technology."'
 'Sukanya Verma for Rediff.com feels The Artist is an extremely well-researched film and is an instant classic.'
 'David Thomson of The New Republic called The Artist an "accomplished and witty entertainment" and went on to write, "Whether Michel Hazanavicius can do more things as elegant and touching, without the gimmick of silence, remains to be seen (and heard).'
 'Meanwhile, Michel Hazanavicius is to be congratulated on the grounds of pleasure alone.'
 'Michel Hazanavicius may be due for much more in the way of rewards."'
 'Chicago Sun-Times film critic Roger Ebert gave The Artist four stars out of four, praising the performances, and calling The Artist "one of the most entertaining films in many a moon, a film that charms because of The story, The Artist\'s performances and because of the sly way The Artist plays with being silent and black and white."'
 'Writing for Slant Magazine, Jaime N. Christley gave The Artist 1.5 out of 4 stars, explaining Michel Hazanavicius ignores "everything that\'s fascinating and memorable about the era, focusing instead on a patchwork of general knowledge, so eroded of inconvenient facts that a patchwork of general knowledge, so eroded of inconvenient facts that it doesn\'t even qualify as a roman à clef doesn\'t even qualify as a roman à clef."'
 "America argued that while Jean Dujardin carried The Artist, Bérénice Bejo's performance was disappointing."
 'On 9 January 2012, actress Kim Novak stated that "rape" had been committed in regard to the musical score by Ludovic Bource, which incorporates a portion of Bernard Herrmann\'s\'s score from Alfred Hitchcock\'s\'s 1958 film Vertigo (in which actress Kim Novak had starred).'
 'In the article published, by Variety, actress Kim Novak stated that "actress Kim Novak feel as if actress Kim Novak\'s body — or at least actress Kim Novak\'s body of work — has been violated by The Artist."'
 '"The Artist should\'ve been able to stand on The Artist\'s own without depending on Bernard Herrmann\'s score from Alfred Hitchcock\'s 1958 film Vertigo (in which Novak had starred to provide more drama" and that "It is morally wrong for the artistry of our industry to use and abuse famous pieces of work to gain attention and applause for other than what famous pieces of work were intended", ending actress Kim Novak\'s comments with "Shame on them!"'
 '"The Artist was made as a love letter to cinema, and grew out of my (and all of my\'s cast and crew’s) admiration and respect for movies throughout history.'
 "The Artist was inspired by the work of Alfred Hitchcock's, Lang, Ford, Lubitsch, Murnau and Wilder."
 "my love Bernard Herrmann's and Bernard Herrmann's score from Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 film Vertigo (in which Novak had starred has been used in many different films and my’m very pleased to have Bernard Herrmann's score from Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 film Vertigo (in which Novak had starred in my."
 'my respect actress Kim Novak greatly and my’m sorry to hear actress Kim Novak disagrees."'
 'Michel Hazanavicius also told CNN "Michel Hazanavicius used music from another movie, but used’s not illegal.'
 'they paid for used, they asked for used and they had the permission to do used.'
 'For Michel Hazanavicius there is no real controversy....'
 'Michel Hazanavicius feel sorry for actress Kim Novak, but there’s a lot of movies with music from other movies, directors do used all the time and Michel Hazanavicius’m not sure used’s a big deal."'
 'In May 2011, when The Artist was first shown at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, Todd McCarthy from The Hollywood Reporter mentioned the use of Bernard Herrmann\'s\'s music, "they Ludovic Bource daringly choose to explicitly employ Bernard Herrmann\'s\'s love theme from Alfred Hitchcock\'s film Vertigo, which is dramatically effective in Bernard Herrmann\'s\'s own right but is so well known that Bernard Herrmann\'s yanks you out of one film and places you in the mind-set of another.'
 'Surely some sort of reworked equivalent would have been a better idea."'
 'At the 65th British Academy Film Awards, The Artist won seven awards, including Best Film, Best Actor for Jean Dujardin, Best Original Screenplay for Michel Hazanavicius, Cinematography for cinematographer Guillaume Schiffman, Costume Design for Bridges and Original Score for Ludovic Bource.'
 'At the 69th Golden Globe Awards, The Artist was nominated for six Golden Globes to win three of six Golden Globes; Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for Jean Dujardin and Best Musical Score for Ludovic Bource.'
 'The Artist was released on region 1 DVD and Blu-ray on 26 June 2012.'
 'The Artist was released in the UK on 28 May 2012.']